---
layout: post
title:  "Launch and Acknowledgements"
date:   2024-11-19 09:00:00 -0700
categories: devlog
---

## Launch

*Tensor 1* has released for PC on Steam. [Buy it now.](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3299900)

## Acknowledgements

*Tensor 1* was developed by a one person team, but not by one person.

Not to point fingers at any project in particular, but many of the "one person projects" out there that are famous for being "one person projects" did in fact have multiple contributors once you dig deep enough, often in the form of a forgotten artist or musician or programmer working on commision or temporary contract. And that's not even getting into things like testers or commentators who might have inspired so much from only a few chance words of feedback. And then there are all the resources and tools. Did you write your own game engine? Your level editor? Your graphics editor? Your digital audio workstation? Did you build your own computer? Did you mine your own cobalt?

> In our current unparalleled enterprise, refusal to collaborate is simply a refusal to grow

Collaboration is unavoidable, "but that's a good thing." As much as some would like to believe otherwise, no one is actually *that* talented or interesting. Having multiple contributors means having multiple perspectives, which in turn means a richer overall experience. And even more importantly, no one has that much *time*. Without all the foundations to build on top of, nothing would ever get done.

So it is with *Tensor 1*. The team was one person, and though there were no commissions, contracts, partners, or collaborators (not for a lack of trying, mind you), there were definitely other contributors, even if the vast majority of those contributors never even knew that they were contributing.

But let's start with the ones who did know they were contributing: the testers.

### Testers

First and foremost, I would like to thank each and every tester who tried out the game and gave feedback, suggestions, criticisms, praises, and words of support. The testers touched on and therefore helped improve every aspect of the game, from the technology, to the art, to the music, to the writing, to the design. Most of these testers were anonymous, but some did leave names, screen or otherwise, and here we will honor those who wished to be publicly honored, in no particular order:
- dogedogego
- zhenji
- valant
- Chris

If you were a tester and feel left out, reach out to [contact.magentagrid@gmail.com](mailto:contact.magentagrid@gmail.com) and this post will be updated to reflect your important contribution.

Anyways, from here on out, it's pretty much going to all be the unwitting contributors.

### Technology

The game logic, artificial intelligence, weapon behavior logic, user interface, tile-based level editor, etc. were all developed in-house, but built on top of the foundational tool sets, libraries, and resources offered by 3.x, OpenGL, Enet, Bullet, and more. And for it all to even to be able to run, there was all the software and hardware that make up the computers that made development possible, the computers that make digitial distribution over the Internet possible, and the computers that allow customers to play the game. So thanks to all the countless engineers past and present who make our modern digital world possible.

### Assets

Many art assets (both 2D and 3D) and sound assets (effects, soundscapes, and music) are modifications, customizations, remixes, kitbashes, or otherwise built on top of base assets so generously released into the public domain, under public domain equivalent licenses, or under no-attribution-required permissive licenses. Those who so generously give out their work like that make the world culturally richer for it. And of course, making these modifications, customizations, remixes, and so on would not have been possible without tools like Krita, Blender, Audacity, LMMS, and more.

The writing and broader aspects of the overall design are owed to the mass of culture that has passed before my eyes and through my ears over the years: all the books, comics, movies, television shows, online videos, message boards, image boards, and of course, other video games that I have had the good fortune to encounter.

### And the Rest

And of course, I could not have kept working on the project if not for the economy, culture, and society at large, which allowed me to sell my time and labor for money in the day job market, and then use that money to buy food and shelter as I worked through the nights and weekends. It wasn't easy, but somehow it worked out just long enough to reach this far.